rework precompile tutorial (#1231)
ava-labs/avalanche-docs: docs/subnets/hello-world-precompile-tutorial.md

not available in the default EVM, and are specific to Avalanche EVMs such as
[Coreth](https://github.com/ava-labs/coreth) and [Subnet-EVM](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm).

> A stateful precompile follows this [interface](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contract.go#L64-L67):

Reviewer: This link https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contract.go#L64-L67  is invalid

Author: addressed

This way we can provide even more customization of the EVM through Stateful Precompiles than we can
with the original precompile interface!

### AllowList

> AllowList enables a precompile to enforce permissions on addresses. AllowList is not a contract itself,
> but it's a helper structure to provide control-mechanism to wrapping contracts.
> It provides a `AllowListConfig` to precompile so that it can take an initial configuration
> from genesis/upgrade. It also provides 4 functions to set/read the permissions. In this tutorial we
> used `AllowList` to provide permission control to `HelloWorld` precompile.
> You can find more information about AllowList interface at [here](../subnets/customize-a-subnet.md#allowlist).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The AllowList enables a precompile to enforce permissions on addresses. The AllowList is not a contract itself,
but a helper structure to provide a control mechanism for wrapping contracts.
It provides an `AllowListConfig` to the precompile so that it can take an initial configuration
from genesis/upgrade. It also provides 4 functions to set/read the permissions. In this tutorial, we
used `AllowList` to provide permission control to the `HelloWorld` precompile.
You can find more information about the AllowList interface [here](../subnets/customize-a-subnet.md#allowlist).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The AllowList enables a precompile to enforce permissions on addresses. The AllowList is not a contract itself,
but a helper structure to provide a control mechanism for wrapping contracts.
It provides an `AllowListConfig` to the precompile so that it can take an initial configuration
from genesis/upgrade. It also provides 4 functions to set/read the permissions. In this tutorial, we
used `AllowList` to provide permission control to the `HelloWorld` precompile.
You can find more information about the AllowList interface [here](../subnets/customize-a-subnet.md#allowlist).
```

> You can find more information about the AllowList interface [here](../subnets/customize-a-subnet.md#allowlist).

Reviewer: should the link be `../subnets/customize-a-subnet.md#allowlist-interface`? There is no `../subnets/customize-a-subnet.md#allowlist` in the doc.

Author: yep true good catch.

Stateful precompiles are [alpha software](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_release_life_cycle#Alpha).
Build at your own risk.

> In this tutorial we used a branch based on SubnetEVM version `v0.4.9`. You can find the branch

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we used a branch based on SubnetEVM version `v0.4.9`. You can find the branch
```

> In this tutorial, we used a branch based on SubnetEVM version `v0.4.10`. You can find the branch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we used a branch based on Subnet-EVM version `v0.4.10`. You can find the branch
```

> [here](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/). The code in this

Reviewer: https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/ is an invalid link.

Author: fixed

> branch is the same as SubnetEVM version `v0.4.10` except for the `precompile/` directory. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
branch is the same as Subnet-EVM version `v0.4.10` except for the `precompile/` directory. The
```
Please replace SubnetEVM with Subnet-EVM in all occurances.

> In this tutorial we used a branch based on SubnetEVM version `v0.4.9`. You can find the branch
> [here](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/). The code in this
> branch is the same as SubnetEVM version `v0.4.9` except for the `precompile/` directory. The
> `precompile/` directory contains the code for the `HelloWorld` precompile. We will be using this
> precompile as an example to learn how to write a stateful precompile. The code in this branch can become
> outdated.
> You should always use the latest version of SubnetEVM when you develop your own precompile.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we used a branch based on SubnetEVM version `v0.4.9`. You can find the branch
[here](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/). The code in this
branch is the same as SubnetEVM version `v0.4.9` except for the `precompile/` directory. The
`precompile/` directory contains the code for the `HelloWorld` precompile. We will be using this
precompile as an example to learn how to write a stateful precompile. The code in this branch can become
outdated.
You should always use the latest version of SubnetEVM when you develop your own precompile.

```

> 

Author: updated

npm install -g yarn
```

### Complete Code

You can inspect the [Hello World Precompile tutorial](https://github.com/ava-labs/hello-world-official-precompile-tutorial/pull/1)
for the complete code.

> 

Reviewer 2: did we forget to change the link to helloworld-official-tutorial-v2 on line 205?

Author: updated with diff

}
```

This interface defines 2 functions, `sayHello()` and `setGreeting()`. The `sayHello()` function
is a `view` function, meaning it does not modify the state of the precompile and returns a string result.

> The `setGreeting()` function is a state-changer function, meaning it modifies the state of the precompile.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `setGreeting()` function is a state changer function, meaning it modifies the state of the precompile.
```

9- Add your solidity interface and test contract to contract-examples/contracts
10- Write solidity tests for your precompile in contract-examples/test
11- Create your genesis with your precompile enabled in tests/e2e/genesis/
12- Create e2e test for your solidity test in tests/e2e/solidity/suites.go
13- Run your e2e precompile Solidity tests with 'E2E=true ./scripts/run.sh
*/
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

### Step 1: Set Config Key

Let's jump to `helloworld/module.go` file first. This file contains the module definition for our
precompile. We can see the `ConfigKey` is set to some default value of `helloWorldConfig`.
This key should be unique to the precompile.
This config key determines which JSON key to use when reading the precompile's config from the
JSON upgrade/genesis file. In this case, the config key is `helloWorldConfig` and JSON config
should look like:

```json
{
  "helloWorldConfig": {
    "blockTimestamp": 0
		...
  }
}
```

### Step 2: Set Contract Address

We can see the `ContractAddress` is set to some default value.

> You should change that default value to a suitable address for your precompile.

Reviewer 2: Should we be consistent between `we` and `you` and what person we are using?

Author: changed some places

it can run the precompile if the precompile is enabled.

### Step 3: Add Custom Code

Search (`CTRL F`) throughout the file with `CUSTOM CODE STARTS HERE` to find the areas in the
precompile package that we need to modify. We should start with the reference imports code block.

#### Step 3.1: Module File

Module file contains fundamental information about the precompile. This includes the key for the
precompile, the address of the precompile and a configurator. This file is located at
[`./precompile/helloworld/module.go`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts/helloworld/module.go)

It defines the module for the precompile. The module is used to register the precompile to the
precompile registry. The precompile registry is used to read configs and enable the precompile.
Registration is done in `init()` function of the module file. `NewConfig()` is used to create a
new instance for the precompile config. This will be used in custom Unmarshal/Marshal logic.
You don't need to override these functions.

##### Configure()

> Module file contains a `configurator` which implements `contract.Configurator` interface. This interface
> contains a `Configure()` function which is used to configure the precompile and set the initial
> state of the precompile. This function is called when the precompile is enabled. This typically used
> to read from given config in upgrade/genesis JSON and set the initial state of the
> precompile accordingly. This function also calls `AllowListConfig.Configure()` to invoke AllowList
> configuration as the last step. You should keep it as it is if you want to use AllowList.
> You can modify this function for your custom logic. You can circle back to this function later
> after you have finalized implementation of the precompile config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Module file contains a `configurator` which implements `contract.Configurator` interface. This interface
includes a `Configure()` function used to configure the precompile and set the initial
state of the precompile. This function is called when the precompile is enabled. This is typically used
to read from a given config in upgrade/genesis JSON and sets the initial state of the
precompile accordingly. This function also calls `AllowListConfig.Configure()` to invoke AllowList
configuration as the last step. You should keep it as it is if you want to use AllowList.
You can modify this function for your custom logic. You can circle back to this function later
after you have finalized the implementation of the precompile config.
```

#### Step 3.2: Config File

> Config file contains the config for the precompile. This file is located at
> [`/precompile/helloworld/config.go`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts/helloworld/config.go).
> This file contains `Config` struct which implements `precompileconfig.Config` interface.
> It has some embedded structs like `precompileconfig.Upgrade`. `Upgrade` is used to enable
> upgrades for the precompile. It contains the `BlockTimestamp` and `Disable` to enable/disable
> upgrades. `BlockTimestamp` is the timestamp of the block when the upgrade will be activated.
> `Disable` is used to disable the upgrade. If you use `AllowList` for the precompile, there is also
> `allowlist.AllowListConfig` embedded in the `Config` struct. `AllowListConfig` is used specify initial
> roles for specified addresses. If you have any custom fields in your precompile config, you can add them
> here. These custom fields will be read from upgrade/genesis JSON and set in the precompile config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The config file contains the config for the precompile. This file is located at
[`/precompile/helloworld/config.go`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts/helloworld/config.go).
This file contains the `Config` struct, which implements `precompileconfig.Config` interface.
It has some embedded structs like `precompileconfig.Upgrade`. `Upgrade` is used to enable
upgrades for the precompile. It contains the `BlockTimestamp` and `Disable` to enable/disable
upgrades. `BlockTimestamp` is the timestamp of the block when the upgrade will be activated.
`Disable` is used to disable the upgrade. If you use `AllowList` for the precompile, there is also
`allowlist.AllowListConfig` embedded in the `Config` struct. `AllowListConfig` is used to specify initial
roles for specified addresses. If you have any custom fields in your precompile config, you can add them
here. These custom fields will be read from upgrade/genesis JSON and set in the precompile config.
```

```go
// Config implements the StatefulPrecompileConfig
// interface while adding in the HelloWorld specific precompile address.
type Config struct {
	allowlist.AllowListConfig
	precompileconfig.Upgrade
}
```

##### Verify()

> `Verify()` is called on startup and an error is treated as fatal. Generated code contains a call
> to `AllowListConfig.Verify()` to verify the `AllowListConfig`. You can leave that as is, and start
> adding your own custom verify code after that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Verify()` is called on startup and an error is treated as fatal. Generated code contains a call
to `AllowListConfig.Verify()` to verify the `AllowListConfig.` You can leave that as is and start
adding your own custom verify code after that.
```

Author: I prefer to keep `.` outside of ticks.

	return allowlist.GetAllowListStatus(stateDB, ContractAddress, address)
}

// SetHelloWorldAllowListStatus sets the permissions of [address] to [role] for the
// HelloWorld list. Assumes [role] has already been verified as valid.
// This stores the [role] in the contract storage with address [ContractAddress]
// and [address] hash. It means that any reusage of the [address] key for different value
// conflicts with the same slot [role] is stored.
// Precompile implementations must use a different key than [address] for their storage.
func SetHelloWorldAllowListStatus(stateDB contract.StateDB, address common.Address, role allowlist.Role) {
	allowlist.SetAllowListRole(stateDB, ContractAddress, address, role)
}
```

These will be helpful to use AllowList precompile helper in our functions.

##### Packers and Unpackers

There is also auto generated Packers and Unpackers for the ABI. These will be used in `sayHello` and
`setGreeting` functions to comfort the ABI.
These functions are auto-generated
and will be used in necessary places accordingly.
You don't need to worry about how to deal with them, but it's good to know what they are.

> 

Reviewer 2: nice!

    --pkg value
          Go package name to generate the precompile into (default = {type})

    --type value
          Struct name for the precompile (default = {abi file name})

   MISC

    --help, -h                     (default: false)
          show help

    --version, -v                  (default: false)
          print the version

COPYRIGHT:
   Copyright 2013-2022 The go-ethereum Authors
```

Precompile contracts reside under the [`./precompile/contracts`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts) directory. Let's generate our precompile
template in the `./precompile/contracts/helloworld` directory, where `helloworld` is the name of the
Go package we want to generate the precompile into.

```bash
./scripts/generate_precompile.sh --abi ./abis/IHelloWorld.abi --type HelloWorld --pkg helloworld
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

This generates a precompile template files `contract.go`, `contract.abi`, `config.go`, `module.go`
and `README.md` located at [`./precompile/contracts/helloworld`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts/helloworld)

> directory.`README.md` explains general guidelines for precompile development. You should carefully read

Reviewer: ```suggestion
directory. `README.md` explains general guidelines for precompile development. You should carefully read
```

var ContractAddress = common.HexToAddress("0x0300000000000000000000000000000000000000")
```

Now when Subnet-EVM sees the `helloworld.ContractAddress` as input when executing
[`CALL`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/core/vm/evm.go#L284),
[`CALLCODE`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/core/vm/evm.go#L355),
[`DELEGATECALL`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/core/vm/evm.go#L396),
[`STATICCALL`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/core/vm/evm.go#L445),
it can run the precompile if the precompile is enabled.

### Step 3: Add Custom Code

Search (`CTRL F`) throughout the file with `CUSTOM CODE STARTS HERE` to find the areas in the
precompile package that you need to modify. You should start with the reference imports code block.

#### Step 3.1: Module File

Module file contains fundamental information about the precompile. This includes the key for the
precompile, the address of the precompile and a configurator. This file is located at

> [`./precompile/helloworld/module.go`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts/helloworld/module.go)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`./precompile/helloworld/module.go`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts/helloworld/module.go).
```

> It defines the module for the precompile. The module is used to register the precompile to the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This file defines the module for the precompile. The module is used to register the precompile to the
```

Author: changed

```go
// Verify tries to verify Config and returns an error accordingly.
func (c *Config) Verify() error {
	// Verify AllowList first
	if err := c.AllowListConfig.Verify(); err != nil {
		return err
	}

	// CUSTOM CODE STARTS HERE
	// Add your own custom verify code for Config here
	// and return an error accordingly
	return nil
}
```

##### Equal()

Next we see is `Equal()`. This function determines if two precompile configs are equal. This is used
to determine if the precompile needs to be upgraded. There is some default code that is generated for
checking `Upgrade` and `AllowListConfig` equality.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

```go
// Equal returns true if [s] is a [*Config] and it has been configured identical to [c].
func (c *Config) Equal(s precompileconfig.Config) bool {
	// typecast before comparison
	other, ok := (s).(*Config)
	if !ok {
		return false
	}
	// CUSTOM CODE STARTS HERE
	// modify this boolean accordingly with your custom Config, to check if [other] and the current [c] are equal
	// if Config contains only Upgrade  and AllowListConfig  you can skip modifying it.

> 	equals := c.Upgrade.Equal(&other.Upgrade) && c.AllowListConfig.Equal(&other.AllowListConfig)

Reviewer 2: nit: extra space

Author: ah that probably because of the ws in template

	return equals
}
```

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

We can leave this function as is since we check `Upgrade` and `AllowListConfig` for equality which are
the only fields that `Config` struct has.

#### Step 3.3: Modify Configure()

We can now circle back to `Configure()` in `module.go` as we finished implementing `Config` struct.
This function configures the `state` with the
initial configuration at`blockTimestamp` when the precompile is enabled.
In the HelloWorld example, we want to set up a default
key-value mapping in the state where the key is `storageKey` and the value is `Hello World!`. The
`StateDB` allows us to store a key-value mapping of 32 byte hashes. The below code snippet can be
copied and pasted to overwrite the default `Configure()` code.

```go
const defaultGreeting = "Hello World!"

// Configure configures [state] with the given [cfg] precompileconfig.
// This function is called by the EVM once per precompile contract activation.
// You can use this function to set up your precompile contract's initial state,
// by using the [cfg] config and [state] stateDB.

> 	// Configure configures [state] with the initial configuration.

Reviewer 3: this seems like a duplicate comment?

Author: yep removed it, thanks

	if remainingGas, err = contract.DeductGas(suppliedGas, SetGreetingGasCost); err != nil {
		return nil, 0, err
	}
	if readOnly {
		return nil, remainingGas, vmerrs.ErrWriteProtection
	}
	// attempts to unpack [input] into the arguments to the SetGreetingInput.
	// Assumes that [input] does not include selector
	// You can use unpacked [inputStruct] variable in your code
	inputStruct, err := UnpackSetGreetingInput(input)
	if err != nil {
		return nil, remainingGas, err
	}

	// Allow list is enabled and SetGreeting is a state-changer function.
	// This part of the code restricts the function to be called only by enabled/admin addresses in the allow list.
	// You can modify/delete this code if you don't want this function to be restricted by the allow list.
	stateDB := accessibleState.GetStateDB()
	// Verify that the caller is in the allow list and therefore has the right to call this function.
	callerStatus := allowlist.GetAllowListStatus(stateDB, ContractAddress, caller)
	if !callerStatus.IsEnabled() {
		return nil, remainingGas, fmt.Errorf("%w: %s", ErrCannotSetGreeting, caller)
	}
	// allow list code ends here.

	// CUSTOM CODE STARTS HERE
	// CUSTOM CODE STARTS HERE

> 	// Check if the input string is longer than HashLength

Reviewer 2: two CUSTOM CODE STARTS HERE?

Author: fixed, thanks for spotting

const (
	WriteGasCostPerSlot = 20_000
	ReadGasCostPerSlot  = 5_000
)
```

`WriteGasCostPerSlot` is the cost of one write such as modifying a state storage slot.

`ReadGasCostPerSlot` is the cost of reading a state storage slot.

This should be in your gas cost estimations based on how many times the precompile function does a
read or a write. For example, if the precompile modifies the state slot of its precompile address
twice then the gas cost for that function would be `40_000`.

On top of these gas costs, we also have to account for the gas costs of AllowList gas costs. These
are the gas costs of reading and writing permissions for addresses in AllowList. These are defined
under [`precompile/allowlist/allowlist.go`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/allowlist/allowlist.go#L28-L29).
By default these are added to the default gas costs to the state-change functions (SetGreeting)
of the precompile. Meaning that these functions will cost an additional `ReadAllowListGasCost` in order
to read permissions from the storage. If you don't plan to read permissions from the storage then
you can omit these.

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we talk about the dangers of not accurately putting the correct gas costs?

Author: good idea, added

```

### Step 5: Register Precompile

We should register our precompile in [`/precompile/registry.go`](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/registry/registry.go)
to be discovered by other packages.
Our `Module` file contains an `init()` function that registers our precompile.
`init()` is called when the package is imported.
We should register our precompile in a common package so
that it can be imported by other packages.

```go
// Force imports of each precompile to ensure each precompile's init function runs and registers itself
// with the registry.
import (
	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/deployerallowlist"

	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/nativeminter"

	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/txallowlist"

	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/feemanager"

	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/rewardmanager"

	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/helloworld"
	// ADD YOUR PRECOMPILE HERE
	// _ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/yourprecompile"
)

> ```

Reviewer 2: nice

### Step 6: Add Config Tests

> Let's add some unit tests to make sure our precompile is configured correctly. Config tests will
> be under `/precompile/contracts/helloworld/config_test.go`. There are mainly 2 functions we need
> to test: `Verify` and `Equal`. `Verify` checks if the precompile is configured correctly. `Equal`
> checks if the precompile is equal to another precompile. You can check other `config_test.go` files
> in the `/precompile/contracts` directory for examples. For the `HelloWorld` precompile, you can
> check the code in [here](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts/helloworld/config_test.go)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's add some unit tests to ensure our precompile is configured correctly. Config tests will
be under `/precompile/contracts/helloworld/config_test.go`. We need to test mainly two functions: `Verify` and `Equal.` `Verify` checks if the precompile is configured correctly. `Equal`
checks if the precompile is equal to another precompile. For example, you can check other `config_test.go` files
in the `/precompile/contracts` directory. For the `HelloWorld` precompile, you can
check the code [here](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts/helloworld/config_test.go)
```

Author: Is this a whitespace diff suggestion? I intentionally split those lines to comfort the enforced MD rules.

Reviewer 2: sorry for the big suggestion but it was mainly for 2 - >two

Author: ah thanks. changed it.

	Caller common.Address
	// Input the raw input bytes to the precompile
	Input []byte
	// InputFn is a function that returns the raw input bytes to the precompile
	// If specified, Input will be ignored.
	InputFn func(t *testing.T) []byte
	// SuppliedGas is the amount of gas supplied to the precompile
	SuppliedGas uint64
	// ReadOnly is whether the precompile should be called in read only
	// mode. If true, the precompile should not modify the state.
	ReadOnly bool
	// Config is the config to use for the precompile
	// It should be the same precompile config that is used in the
	// precompile's configurator.
	// If nil, Configure will not be called.
	Config precompileconfig.Config
	// BeforeHook is called before the precompile is called.
	BeforeHook func(t *testing.T, state contract.StateDB)
	// AfterHook is called after the precompile is called.
	AfterHook func(t *testing.T, state contract.StateDB)
	// ExpectedRes is the expected raw byte result returned by the precompile
	ExpectedRes []byte
	// ExpectedErr is the expected error returned by the precompile
	ExpectedErr string
	// BlockNumber is the block number to use for the precompile's block context
	BlockNumber int64
}
```

> Each test can populate the fields of the `PrecompileTest` struct to customize the test.
> This test uses a AllowList helper function
> `allowlist.RunPrecompileWithAllowListTests(t, Module, state.NewTestStateDB, tests)`
> which can run all specified tests plus AllowList test suites. If you don't plan to use AllowList,
> you can directly run as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each test can populate the fields of the `PrecompileTest` struct to customize the test.
This test uses an AllowList helper function
`allowlist.RunPrecompileWithAllowListTests(t, Module, state.NewTestStateDB, tests)`
which can run all specified tests plus AllowList test suites. If you don't plan to use AllowList,
you can directly run them as follows:
```

```go
// Force imports of each precompile to ensure each precompile's init function runs and registers itself
// with the registry.
import (
	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/deployerallowlist"

	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/nativeminter"

	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/txallowlist"

	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/feemanager"

	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/rewardmanager"

	_ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/helloworld"
	// ADD YOUR PRECOMPILE HERE
	// _ "github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/precompile/contracts/yourprecompile"
)
```

### Step 6: Add Config Tests

Let's add some unit tests to make sure our precompile is configured correctly. Config tests will
be under `/precompile/contracts/helloworld/config_test.go`. There are mainly two functions we need
to test: `Verify` and `Equal`. `Verify` checks if the precompile is configured correctly. `Equal`
checks if the precompile is equal to another precompile. You can check other `config_test.go` files
in the `/precompile/contracts` directory for examples. For the `HelloWorld` precompile, you can

> check the code in [here](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts/helloworld/config_test.go)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
check the code in [here](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/precompile/contracts/helloworld/config_test.go).
```

> ### Step 6: Add Contract Tests

Reviewer: There are two Step 6 and 7, please modify this and all steps below to make them unique.

Author: fixed all those steps

	// It should be the same precompile config that is used in the
	// precompile's configurator.
	// If nil, Configure will not be called.
	Config precompileconfig.Config
	// BeforeHook is called before the precompile is called.
	BeforeHook func(t *testing.T, state contract.StateDB)
	// AfterHook is called after the precompile is called.
	AfterHook func(t *testing.T, state contract.StateDB)
	// ExpectedRes is the expected raw byte result returned by the precompile
	ExpectedRes []byte
	// ExpectedErr is the expected error returned by the precompile
	ExpectedErr string
	// BlockNumber is the block number to use for the precompile's block context
	BlockNumber int64
}
```

Each test can populate the fields of the `PrecompileTest` struct to customize the test.
This test uses an AllowList helper function
`allowlist.RunPrecompileWithAllowListTests(t, Module, state.NewTestStateDB, tests)`
which can run all specified tests plus AllowList test suites. If you don't plan to use AllowList,
you can directly run them as follows:

```go
	for name, test := range tests {
		t.Run(name, func(t *testing.T) {
			test.Run(t, module, newStateDB(t))
		})
	}
```

> ### Step 7: Add Test Contract

Reviewer: There is another step 7 below.

Author: fixed

	// precompile's configurator.
	// If nil, Configure will not be called.
	Config precompileconfig.Config
	// BeforeHook is called before the precompile is called.
	BeforeHook func(t *testing.T, state contract.StateDB)
	// AfterHook is called after the precompile is called.
	AfterHook func(t *testing.T, state contract.StateDB)
	// ExpectedRes is the expected raw byte result returned by the precompile
	ExpectedRes []byte
	// ExpectedErr is the expected error returned by the precompile
	ExpectedErr string
	// BlockNumber is the block number to use for the precompile's block context
	BlockNumber int64
}
```

Each test can populate the fields of the `PrecompileTest` struct to customize the test.
This test uses an AllowList helper function
`allowlist.RunPrecompileWithAllowListTests(t, Module, state.NewTestStateDB, tests)`
which can run all specified tests plus AllowList test suites. If you don't plan to use AllowList,
you can directly run them as follows:

```go
	for name, test := range tests {
		t.Run(name, func(t *testing.T) {
			test.Run(t, module, newStateDB(t))
		})
	}
```

You can check other `contract_test.go` files in the `/precompile/contracts`.

> 

Reviewer 2: nit: link here?

> 

Reviewer 2: nit: link here?

Author: moved that to above. Since there are multiple files like that, I don't think we can show a link. But I put a link for hello world tests right after this one. so should be clear enough.

}
```

:::warning

Hello World Precompile is a different contract than ExampleHelloWorld and has a different address.
Since the precompile uses AllowList for a permissioned access,
any call to the precompile including from ExampleHelloWorld will be denied unless
the caller is added to the AllowList.

:::

Please note that this contract is simply a wrapper and is calling the precompile functions.

> ### Step 7: Building AvalancheGo and Subnet-EVM

Reviewer: Duplicate step 7

Author: fixed

#### Step 8.1: Add Hardhat Test

We can now write our hardhat test in `./contract-examples/test`. The below code snippet can be

> copied and pasted into a new file called `hello_world.ts` [here](https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/contract-examples/tests/hello_world.ts):

Reviewer: Invalid link: https://github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/blob/helloworld-official-tutorial-v2/contract-examples/tests/hello_world.ts

Author: fixed

ld: warning: could not create compact unwind for _blst_sha256_block_data_order: does not use RBP or RSP based frame

Compiled load.test
Running Suite: subnet-evm precompile ginkgo test suite - /Users/avalabs/go/src/github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm
===================================================================================================================
Random Seed: 1674833631

Will run 1 of 7 specs
------------------------------
[BeforeSuite]

> /Users/avalabs/go/src/github.com/ava-labs/subnet-evm/tests/precompile/precompile_test.go:31

Reviewer 2: nice

  ExampleHelloWorld
Contract deployed to: 0x52C84043CD9c865236f11d9Fc9F56aa003c1f922

>   	✓ should getHello properly

Reviewer 3: wspace fix?

Author: i think it was a tab, fixed it.
